
File Formats > Footprint Library File Format
Footprint Library File Format
Introduction
This documents the s-expression footprint library file format for all versions of KiCad from 6.0.

Footprint library files use the .kicad_mod extension.

Footprint library files can only define a single footprint.

Footprint libraries are defined a folder containing one or more footprint library files.

This file format was introduced with the launch of KiCad 4.0.
Prior to version 6 of KiCad, strings were only quoted when necessary. Saving an older board file to the latest file format will result in these strings being quoted even though there is no functional change in the board itself.
Layout
A footprint library file includes the following sections:

Header

Footprint Definition

Header Section
The footprint token indicates that it is KiCad footprint library file. This section is required.

Third party scripts should not use pcbnew as the generator identifier. Please use some other identifier so that bugs introduced by third party generators are not confused with a footprint library file created by KiCad.
(footprint "NAME"                                               
  (version VERSION)                                             
  (generator GENERATOR)                                         

  ;; contents of the footprint library file...                  
)
The footprint NAME is a quoted string that defines the name of the footprint.
The version token attribute defines the board version using the YYYYMMDD date format.
The generator token attribute defines the program used to write the file.
The footprint definition goes here.
Footprint Section
See the footprint in the s-expression board common definitions.

 Last Modified 2024-05-10
Developer Documentation | KiCad
Search
Search...
 Getting Started
 Build
 Rules and Guidelines
 Components
 APIs and Bindings
 Source Code Docs
 Translation
 KiCad Addons
 File Formats
S-Expression Format
Footprint Library File Format
Board File Format
Symbol Library File Format
Schematic File Format
Work Sheet File Format
 Legacy Formats (4.0 up to 6.0)
Legacy Board Format (pre 4.0)
 Import Formats
More
 GitLab repo
 
Language
English
 
Theme
Auto
Built with  by Hugo

